'\" t
.\"
.\" $Id: mygraft.1,v 1.1 2005/11/27 16:13:01 marka Exp $
.\"
.TH GRAFT 1 "25 Feb 2002"
.SH NAME
graft \- duplicate directory trees using symbolic links
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B graft
.I -i
.RI [ -C ]
.if 0 .RI [ -P | u ]
.RI [ -l
.IR log ]
.RI [ -n ]
.RI [ -v | V ]
.RI [ -s | -t
.IR target ]
.I package package ...
.br
.B graft
.I -d
.RI [ -D ]
.if 0 .RI [ -u ]
.RI [ -l
.IR log ]
.RI [ -n ]
.RI [ -v | V ]
.RI [ -s | -t
.IR target ]
.I package package ...
.br
.B graft
.I -p
.RI [ -D ]
.if 0 .RI [ -u ]
.RI [ -l
.IR log ]
.RI [ -n ]
.RI [ -v | V ]
.RI [ -s | -t
.IR target ]
.I package package ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B graft
duplicates a directory tree from a source location to a target
location.

.B graft
will typically be used to duplicate the directory trees of many
disparate packages into a single common area so that search paths can
be minimised.

Directories are created as needed. Symbolic links from target files to
source files are created as needed. A file is considered to be anything
that is not a directory.

When installing a directory tree,
.B graft
will bypass a directory if it contains a file called
.IR .nograft .

When installing a directory tree,
if a directory contains a file called
.IR .graft-exclude ,
.B graft
will exclude files and/or directories from the directory if they are
listed in the
.I .graft-exclude
file. The
.I .graft-exclude
file should contain a list of files and/or directories to be excluded,
one file or directory name per line. Entries that do not match files
and/or directories in the directory containing the
.I .graft-exclude
file will be ignored by
.BR graft .
The processing of
.I .nograft
files takes precedence over the processing of
.I .graft-exclude
files.

When installing a directory tree,
if a directory contains a file called
.IR .graft-include ,
.B graft
will include
.B only
those files and/or directories listed in the
.I .graft-include
file. The
.I .graft-include
file should contain a list of files and/or directories to be included,
one file or directory name per line. Entries that do not match files
and/or directories in the directory containing the
.I .graft-include
file will be ignored by
.BR graft .
Note that an empty
.I .graft-include
file will force
.B graft
to behave as if the directory contained a
.I .nograft
file.
The processing of
.I .graft-exclude
files takes precedence over the processing of
.I .graft-include
files.

If a file or directory is listed in both a
.I .graft-include
and
.I .graft-exclude
file, it will be
.BR excluded .
.if 1
.if 1 When installing a directory tree,
.if 1 .B graft
.if 1 will always exclude files and/or directories whose names exactly match
.if 1 one of the following:
.if 1
.if 1 .in 1i
.if 1 .I CVS RCS SCCS .svn
.if 1 .in
.if 1
.if 1 The presence of a
.if 1 .I .nograft
.if 1 or
.if 1 .I .graft-include
.if 1 file overrides this feature.

When installing a directory tree,
.B graft
will fail if it encounters a conflict. A conflict occurs when a
target object exists and is not the same type as the source object
according to the following table:

.TS
center;
lB lB
l l.
Source Object	Target Object
_
directory	not a directory
file	directory
file	file
file	T{
symbolic link to something other than the source object
T}
.TE

When deleting directory trees,
.B graft
will
.B not
fail if it encounters a conflict.

When deleting directory trees,
.B graft
will continue to process a directory without regard to the contents of
either a
.I .nograft
or a
.I .graft-exclude
or a
.I .graft-include
file.

When pruning directory trees,
.B graft
will
.if !1 rename
.if 1 remove
files and directories which will conflict with the installation of the
package.
.if !1 The new file name will be \fIfile.pruned\fP.
.if 1 If the directory to be removed is not empty, it
.if 1 will be renamed \fIdir.pruned\fP.

When pruning directory trees,
.B graft
will continue to process a directory without regard to the contents of
either a
.I .nograft
or a
.I .graft-exclude
or a
.I .graft-include
file.

.B graft
records its actions in a log file. The log file contains a time stamp,
the
.B graft
version number (a trailing
.B +
character indicates a development version), the type of
.B graft
action that was performed, the package installation directory and the
.B graft
target directory. If a conflict arises during the processing of a
package, another log entry will be made with a qualifying
.B C
character added to the type indicator. The following is an example
extract of a
.B graft
log file.

.TS
center;
l l l l l.
878790215	1.10+	I	/pkgs/cpio-2.4.2	/pkgs
878799501	1.10+	I	/pkgs/byteyears-1.0	/pkgs
878888916	2.1	I	/pkgs/gzip-1.2.4	/pkgs
878888916	2.1	IC	/pkgs/gzip-1.2.4/bin/gzip	invalid symlink
878889045	2.1	D	/pkgs/gzip-1.2.4	/pkgs
878889054	2.1	P	/pkgs/gzip-1.2.4	/pkgs
878889063	2.1	I	/pkgs/gzip-1.2.4	/pkgs
.TE

This shows that a development version of
.B graft
(1.10+) was used to install symbolic links from
.I /pkgs/cpio-2.4.2
and
.I /pkgs/byteyears-1.0
to
.IR /pkgs .
A new version of
.B graft
(2.1) was used to install symbolic links from
.I /pkgs/gzip-1.2.4
to
.IR /pkgs .
A conflict occurred during this installation, the file
.I /pkgs/bin/gzip
was a symbolic link to something other than
.IR /pkgs/gzip-1.2.4/bin/gzip .
The package was deleted and then pruned before being re-installed
shortly afterwards.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I -i
Install the named package(s).
.if 0 Requires super user privileges.
Cannot be used with the
.I -d
or
.I -p
options.
.if 1 .TP
.if 1 .I -C
.if 1 Disable the automatic exclusion of files and/or
.if 1 directories whose names exactly match:
.if 1
.if 1 .in 1.5i
.if 1 .I CVS RCS SCCS .svn
.if 1 .in
.if 1
.if 1 Can only be used with the
.if 1 .I -i
.if 1 option. This option is ignored for each
.if 1 .I grafted
.if 1  directory, if the directory contains a
.if 1 .I .nograft
.if 1 or
.if 1 .I .graft-include
.if 1 file.
.if !1 .TP
.if !1 .I -C
.if !1 Force the automatic exclusion of files and/or
.if !1 directories whose names exactly match:
.if !1
.if !1 .in 1.5i
.if !1 .I CVS RCS SCCS .svn
.if !1 .in
.if !1
.if !1 Can only be used with the
.if !1 .I -i
.if !1 option. This option is ignored for each
.if !1 .I grafted
.if !1  directory, if the directory contains a
.if !1 .I .nograft
.if !1 or
.if !1 .I .graft-include
.if !1 file.
.if 0 .TP
.if 0 .I -P
.if 0 .if !0 Create directories with the same
.if 0 .if !0 owner, group and permissions as
.if 0 .if !0 original.
.if 0 .if 0 Do not create directories with the same
.if 0 .if 0 owner, group and permissions as
.if 0 .if 0 original.
.if 0 Can only be used with the
.if 0 .I -i
.if 0 option.
.if 0 Cannot be used with the
.if 0 .I -u
.if 0 option.
.TP
.I -d
Delete the named package(s).
.if 0 Requires super user privileges.
Cannot be used with the
.I -i
or
.I -p
options.
.TP
.I -p
Prune files that will conflict with the grafting of the named
package(s).
.if 0 Requires superuser privileges.
Cannot be used with
.I -d
or
-i options.
.TP
.I -D
When used with the
.I -d
option,
.if 1 do not remove directories made empty by package
.if 1 deletion. When used with the \fI-p\fP option,
.if 1 rename conflicting files or directories to
.if 1 \fIfile.pruned\fP.
.if !1 remove directories made empty by package
.if !1 deletion. When used with the \fI-p\fP option,
.if !1 remove conflicting files or directories instead
.if !1 of renaming them as \fIfile.pruned\fP. If the
.if !1 directory is not empty it will be renamed as
.if !1 \fIdir.pruned\fP.
Cannot be used with the
.I -i
option.
.if 0 .TP
.if 0 .I -u
.if 0 Superuser privileges are not required to install,
.if 0 delete or prune packages. Cannot be used with the
.if 0 .I -P
.if 0 option.
.TP
.I -l log
Use the named file as the log file instead of the default log file. The
log file name must be fully qualified. The log file is not used if the
.I -n
option is also supplied. Default:
.B $ENV{HOME}/usr/graft.log
.TP
.I -n
Print a list of operations but do NOT perform them. Automatically
implies the very verbose option.
.if 0 Does not require superuser privileges.
.TP
.I -v
Be verbose.
.TP
.I -V
Be very verbose.
.TP
.I -s
Stow/Depot compatibility mode. Infer the
.B graft
target directory from
each package installation directory in the manner of
.B Stow and
.BR Depot .
Cannot be used with the
.I -t
option.
.TP
.I -t target
Use the named directory as the
.B graft
target directory rather than the
default target directory. The target directory must be fully
qualified. Cannot be used with the
.I -s
option. Default:
.B $ENV{HOME}/usr
.TP
.I package ...
Operate on the named package(s). If the package name is not fully
qualified, the default package installation directory will be prepended
to the named package. Default:
.B $ENV{HOME}/usr/pkgs
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B graft
will terminate with an exit status of either 0, 1, 2 or 3 under the
following conditions:

.TS
center;
cB cB
c lw(3c).
Exit Status	Condition
_
0	All operations succeeded.
1	A conflict occurred during installation.
2	Command line syntax was incorrect.
3	T{
One or more packages listed on the command line does not exist. Other
valid packages listed on the command line were processed correctly.
T}
.TE
.SH VERSION
Version 2.4
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Samuel, Gormand Pty Ptd
.br
<peters@gormand.com.au>
.SH LICENSE
.B graft
is licensed under the terms of the
.I GNU General Public License, Version 2, June 1991.
.SH AVAILABILITY
The latest version of
.B graft
should always be available from
.I http://www.gormand.com.au/peters/tools/
.SH SEE ALSO
.I Graft - a package management utility
